structure data cloud sql,bigdata,bigquary,cloud datastore
bucket is unstructured data it is used to store files
network:
communication between network we use external ip
communication between subnetwork we use internal ip
swaggrer is brand tool for open api
helm is package manager of kubernetes
connect your place to gogle cloud 1.direct peering 2.carrier interconnect 3.vpn
torentz2.com
vmware provide different software ade appliances for virtualization
vmware esx is enterprise level server which providebetter functionality to freeware vmware server
vmware exsi sever is different from vmware esx server because it doesnot have server console
dhcp is a protocol that enable a server to assign the ip address to computer from defined ip range
in https load balancing it used round robbin to send the send the traffic to backend available instance

bucket:
for one project u can create many bucket
in bucket u can store file or folder
cloud bigtable :	
A Cloud Bigtable instance is mostly just a container for your clusters and nodes
Production: A standard instance with either 1 or 2 clusters, as well as 3 or more nodes in each cluster. You cannot downgrade a production instance to a development instance
Development: A low-cost instance for development and testing, with performance limited to the equivalent of a 1-node cluster. There are no monitoring or throughput guarantees; replication is not available; and the SLA does not apply
 Each cluster belongs to a single Cloud Bigtable instance, and an instance can have up to 2 clusters.
Each cluster is located in a single zone
cloud datastore:
Atomic transactions. Cloud Datastore can execute a set of operations where either all succeed, or none occur.
 Cloud Datastore uses a mix of indexes and query constraints so your queries scale with the size of your result set, not the size of your data set.
Encryption at rest. Cloud Datastore automatically encrypts all data before it is written to disk and automatically decrypts the data when read by an authorized user
If you need a relational database with full SQL support for an online transaction processing (OLTP) system, consider Cloud SQL.
If you don’t require support for ACID transactions or if your data is not highly structured, consider Cloud Bigtable.
Cloud Datastore supports querying data by kind or by Google Query Language (GQL)

cloud sql:
Cloud SQL is perfect for Wordpress sites, e-commerce applications, CRM tools
Second Generation instances support MySQL 5.6 or 5.7
Support for secure external connections with the Cloud SQL Proxy or with the SSL/TLS protocol.Support for secure external connections with the Cloud SQL Proxy or with the SSL/TLS protocol.







rest api :
 All operations and communications between components are REST API calls handled by the API Server,
Worloads resources are responsible for managing and running your containers on the cluster. 
DaemonSets, Deployments, HorizontalPodAutoscalers, Ingress, Jobs and ReplicaSets are enabled by default. Other extensions resources can be enabled by setting --runtime-config on apiserver. 

